# WoT Scripting API Call

## 04 February 2026

### Meeting Information

#### Attendees

- Tomoaki Mizushima
- Daniel Peintner
- Cristiano Aguzzi


#### Scribe
- Cristiano Aguzzi

#### Agenda

https://www.w3.org/WoT/IG/wiki/WG_WoT_Scripting_API_WebConf#February_4%2C_2026

### Minutes

#### Minuting process

Daniel: Should we use Etherpad?

Cris: We can try the new process and see if it fits our needs

Daniel: ok created a new [etherpad](https://pad.w3.org/p/2026-02-04-wot-scripting-api-minutes). 

Cris: Where do we share the minutes once we have done?

Daniel: It is in the WoT repository in this [directory](https://github.com/w3c/wot/tree/main/minutes)

#### Previous [minutes](https://www.w3.org/2025/12/10-wot-script-minutes.html)

Daniel: short meeting, we scan the PRs and looked into issues. One requires Ege. No problems with the minutes for me

Cris: ok for me too. 

#### Pull Requests

##### [PR 489]()

Daniel: I tried the changes it looks promising.

Daniel: does it prevents building if something is wrong

Cris: yes, but you can cast the argument to ThingDescription to overrule it. 

Cris: A future development could be to handle the handler and the type returned. There is a library that does that for us, but sometimes it is quite demanding to the tsc compiler.  We could also verify runtime fetched TDs using a TM for validating its structure. 

Daniel: big improvement, I would merge it soon. The other improvements can be done later.

Cris: it pairs well with the upcoming 1.0.0 node-wot version.

Daniel: we'll do the versioning change in a follow-up PR. Maybe we need to revise the versioning

Cris: we should have some record about it.

Daniel: it is probably better to 0.8.0 and go for 0.9.0. Or should we target 1.0.0?

Cris: suggestion: publish 0.8.0 -> merge PR 489 -> publish 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.0

Daniel: we can merge async or in two more weeks. 

#### Publication 

Cris: we have a [list of issues](https://github.com/w3c/wot-scripting-api/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Acandidate-release-september-25) to close.

Daniel: I would go for publication soon even if we don't manage to close them

Cris: Ok, but I would like to close them

##### [Issue 531]()

Cris: The only thing left is supporting "multiple" operations; however, we don't have enough experience with them. 

Daniel: We don't even have a good request for these features

Cris: we can put them on a "wontfix" path for now. 

[adjourned]
