# IRC Minutes from 22.10.2025

Attendees

Present
    -
Regrets
    -
Chair
    -
Scribe
    mjk

Contents

    logistics
        list of topics
    vpn connection check

Meeting minutes

rrsagent draft minutes

## logistics

<sebastian> https://github.com/w3c/wot-testing/tree/main/events/2025.11.Kobe

sk: we can organize the breakout presentation and demo during the plugfest
… we have the room for the entire time from Sunday through Wednesday
… weveryone please bring the equipment and adapters you need
… be aware of the Japan AC power connector
… bring ethernet switches and cables, router if needed

## list of topics

sk: what about Echonet

mizushiima: no new information in Echonet

sk: we have the latest version of the OPC UA companion standard
… we also want to focus on Manageable Actions

ege: we should focus on common definitions
… we used to call it initial connection but we renamed it

sk: seb: OCPP?

dezell: we can have an informal coffee talk on OCPP

sk: NGSI-LD?

mjk: probably not

sk: WoT in the retail domain

denis: we will demonstrate interoperability with POS devices

dezell: the important difference is the TD is based on the retail use case conformance to the spec

mjk: we could invite people to the OCPP coffee talk

seb: device mashup

toumura: I have a PR to merge

<sebastian> w3c/wot-testing#623

sebastian: can you also connect to Modbus devices?

toumura: not implemented currently

sebastian: maybe we can find a way

sebastian: common definitions topic

ege: right

## vpn connection check

mjk: We haven't had requests for local device connections outside the plugfest venue, so may not need to set up the VPN

sebastian: is there any other business?

ege: we should have one more meeting

sebastian: we can use the slot in 2 weeks

ege: maybe we won't be available because we are traveling

dezell: we can agree to keep up offline via email

sebastian: we can use the plugfest email list but you will need to be registered to use it
… let's use the regular mailing list
… or use direct email and someone can forward it to the list
… so this will be the last meeting before the plugfest

<Ege> and I will be at Kobe on Saturday evening. Open for dinner and bar(s) :D

mizushima: who will be the W3C staff contact during the plugfest?

sebastian: there should be a lot of staff members around
… it's going to be up to us to find the room etc.

sebastian: I will check into it and see if we can get a spscific contact
… we'll have to do our best
… AOB?
… adjourned

ege: let's meet on Saturday evening

dezell: great, yes

thanks!

