# AI generated minutes from 8.10.2025

## Quick recap

The team addressed various technical issues including meeting recording settings, domain forwarding, and Zoom screen sharing problems while discussing the implementation of AI transcription and meeting minutes. They reviewed ongoing projects and initiatives, including the transition to Web of Things specifications, the adoption of new protocols, and the upcoming community group meetings. The team concluded by discussing the need for operational streamlining, including the generation of new Zoom meeting links and the potential creation of a Matter protocol binding for Web of Things.

## Next steps

Dave to generate new Zoom links for the TD call today and tomorrow, and potentially for all other meetings in the calendar.
Dave to help with the publication of pending specifications, including the WoT Profile's Working draft that Ben mentioned.
Sebastian to study and decide on the URL encoding issue in the OPC UA binding for Web of Things.
Erich to send information about Web of Things to Azure IoT, the European cloud provider interested in industrial connectivity solutions.
The group to review the AI-generated meeting minutes before publishing to ensure sensitive information is appropriately handled.
The group to consider including Matter protocol binding as a work item in the new charter.
Summary

## Wiki and Recording System Updates

The team discussed technical issues with accessing the wiki page and meeting recording settings. Dave explained that recent system updates affected domain forwarding and the meeting recording AI transcription feature was enabled without his ability to customize settings. The group agreed to make meeting recording announcements at the start of future meetings and decided to continue testing AI transcription while being mindful of participants' privacy concerns.

## AI Meeting Assistant Implementation Discussion

The group discussed using an AI assistant for their meetings, with Michael reporting positive experiences and no objections raised. Dave and Sebastian raised questions about the role of IRC and speaker cues, with Dave emphasizing the need for human editing of minutes to correct any AI errors. The team also addressed technical issues with Zoom screen sharing and wiki access, though these were not fully resolved during the meeting.

## Team Updates and Service Access

The team discussed technical issues preventing access to certain services and minutes from the previous meeting, with Dave indicating these would be temporary and resolved soon. They reviewed the October 1st meeting minutes, which Ben shared, and approved their publication. The group noted that Philippa is engaged but has limited availability, so Dave is serving as the interim team contact, and they are still seeking a permanent replacement. They also mentioned the new logo rollout received mixed reactions, TPAC planning is ongoing, and the OPC UA Community Group Meeting has been announced, with Smart City taking a break until TPAC.

## AI Meeting Minutes Transition Plan

The team discussed transitioning to AI-generated meeting minutes, with Dave explaining that summaries are currently sent to hosts and co-hosts via email after a delay. They agreed to implement a hybrid approach where IRC will be used to record decisions while AI assistants capture conversations, with Sebastian volunteering to serve as the scribe for recording decisions. Sebastian also shared that the OPC Foundation is reviewing comments on the OPC-UA binding for Web of Things, noting that most feedback was positive with only a few remaining comments to address.

## Azure IoT Adopting WoT Binding

The Azure IoT team has decided to adopt the WoT binding companion spec, replacing DTDL in their product, which is a significant development for the team. Erich shared this news, emphasizing that while it came as a surprise, it was a result of his efforts and a positive executive sponsorship. He noted that the team identified some gaps in the spec that will be addressed in version 1.1, and he has sent the draft specification for comments to the architects. The team plans to discuss these comments in the working group and address them in future iterations.

## Data Center Connectivity Trial Plans

Erich announced plans for a trial rollout of connectivity in a Microsoft data center on November 1st, using a UA Edge Translator and automatically generated WoT files from an equipment database. He suggested forming a new working group to create an OPC UA companion spec for data center assets, similar to existing specs for industries like carbon capture and storage. Michael agreed this could resolve tensions between DTDL's telemetry and semantic interface roles, and expressed interest in further discussion on the charter.

## DTDL to WoT Migration Progress

The team discussed the mapping of ISO95 standard to DTDL and WoT, highlighting successful migrations of datasets from DTDL to WoT, including a case with Bosch Building Automation. They agreed to carefully review and announce the progress, ensuring no overstatement or potential customer dissatisfaction. The conversation also touched on the ongoing support for DTDL, the move towards WoT in Azure IT Operations, and the contribution of open-source DTDL and WoT parsers to the Digital Twin Consortium.

## W3C Operations and Publications Update

Dave introduced himself as a long-time W3C team member and researcher, explaining his role in the Web of Things group and his limited availability due to reduced travel. He discussed the need to streamline operations, including meeting management, document editing, and publishing processes. Ben inquired about the publication status of the What Profile's Working Draft, and Dave confirmed that some specifications are ready to be published while others await formal group decisions. Ege announced the upcoming community group meetup on OBCUA, and Sebastian mentioned a problem with the wiki page that prevents agenda visibility. Erich raised a question about his work on integrating Azure IT team tasks.

## Matter Protocol for Web of Things

The group discussed the potential for creating a Matter protocol binding for the Web of Things, with Michael sharing his extensive experience with the protocol and noting that while it's widely supported, there's a need for a champion from the Connectivity Standards Alliance to drive the initiative forward. Erich emphasized the importance of asset descriptions and URI schemes for broader ecosystem support, while Ben highlighted the lack of a URI scheme as a significant barrier. The discussion concluded with Sebastian suggesting that Matter binding could be included in the new charter if there's sufficient interest, potentially attracting more members from companies like Google and Apple.

## Zoom Link Technical Issues Resolution

The team discussed technical issues with Zoom meeting links and decided to generate new URLs for all calendar entries, with Dave agreeing to handle this task immediately after the call. They noted that the main call's link had already been updated, and while the calendar meetings were active, the existing Zoom links were not working. The team also mentioned a Plug Fest planning call scheduled for later that day and agreed to reconvene in 10 minutes for a brief discussion.
