# WoT Main Minutes 21 January 2026

## Attendees

    Kaz Ashimura

    Dave Raggett

    Marc Riedlinger

    Michael Koster

    Kunihiko Toumura

    Sebastian Kaebisch

    Ege Korkan

    Daniel Peintner

    David Ezell

    Mahda Noura

    Tetsushi Matsuda

    Tomoaki Mizushima



Regrets
* none

Agenda:

Chair: Sebastian Kaebisch

Scribe:  Koster

## Agenda:
 https://www.w3.org/WoT/IG/wiki/Main_WoT_WebConf#21_January_2026

## Minutes

### New members
#### Marc Riedlinger
- Works on Asset Administration Shell, Asset Interface Description, sub-model of Thing Description
- Mostly involved in robotics, industrial digital twin

SK: Any questions for Marc?

DE: Welcome to Marc

### Minutes review
-> https://pad.w3.org/p/2026-01-14-wot minutes from the WoT main call on 14 Jan. 2026
SK: (reviews the minutes from January 14th)
... any objections or corrections?
... (none)

-> https://github.com/w3c/wot/tree/main/minutes/main/20260107
KA: To clarify, the process is to copy the minutes to the github
    
### Quick items
#### Use Cases and Requirements Note
-> https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-wot-wg/2026Jan/0000.html Sebastian's CfC message
-> https://w3c.github.io/wot-usecases/publication/3-ign/Overview.html Static HTML for publication
SK: There is a resolution to publish the use case note
... are there any comments or questions?
TM: There are no comments on the github
Proposed resolution: The interest group agrees to publish the current use case document as a W3C Interest Group note

KA: The document mentions the history of the WoT Use Cases initiaed by the WoT WG within the Abstract section, but it is an IG publication as the Status section states

Resolution: The interest group agrees to publish the current use case document as a W3C Interest Group note

SK: Any objections?
... Resolved

#### Planning

SK: We plan to have the next Plugfest in China, hosted by Huwawei
... planning for the end of January

KA: Are there also plans for a F2F meeting in China? for travel budget planning
SK: We are still in the planning stage
... it would be good to use the time to also have a F2F meeting
... we need to discuss with Huawei and W3C China group
... We could say most likely but not committed yet
... We could write an email
KA: would like to negotiate with my sponsor, but probably I can get support for only two travels, one for TPAC and another for a possible WoT F2F

#### Minutes guideline document
-> https://github.com/w3c/wot/pull/1258 wot PR 1258 - New minutes policy
SK: workflow for processing the minutes starting with Etherpad data
... There is a starting template for Etherpad
... We can resolve to follow this process
DP: THere is an inconsistency in the date format we should correct
EK: Make it more human readable, use "January" instead of "01"
DE: The most non-controversial format is ISO 8601
DP: +1
SK: how is the format?
DP: YYYY-MM-DD with hyphenation
KA: There are some W3C rules about date format for spec publication, but it doesn't require it for the minutes, it is more readable for example "01 January 2026"
SK: I prefer the W3C format "DD Month YYYY", any objections?
... let's make a resolution

Proposed resolution: The WoT group agrees to adopt the minutes policy described at:
https://github.com/w3c/wot/pull/1258

SK: Any objections or comments?

Resolution: The WoT group agrees to adopt the minutes policy described at:
https://github.com/w3c/wot/pull/1258

#### W3C Twitter/X account
SK: W3C has deleted the X accounts, and asked if the WGs could also delete theirs
... Is this what we want to do?
... We could discuss in a marketing session also
EK: The W3C account was not being used much at the time
... There were issues of harassment, etc
... Engagement numbers are not accurate
... We also don't use the X account much
... We have pretty good engagement on Mastodon
SK: We should check again, there was a lot of interest at first, but is falling off now
EK: That was a year ago
DP: Our news feed repeats to Mastodon
SK: If we close our account, could it be taken over by someone else?
DP: We can keep the account open but don't post
EK: There is more competition in this space now also, like from Meta
SK: It's like living in the city with more risks, more opportunities
DR: We should look for other outreach opportunities, like video
SK: We could spin up a LinkedIn organization
EK: We should do an evaluation. One issue is W3C doesn't want separate LinkedIn organizations. LinkedIn groups aren't very effective
DR: We need members of the group to participate in making the video content
SK: It's a lot of effort to make high quality videos
DR: We can get help
... will start looking into it
KA: We should think about the resources and focus on the work products, also build the outreach into the charter
SK: Time check
... Suggest we not delete our Twitter/X account now but we can activate other platforms
... we could organize a marketing call to discuss further
DR: will ask around the W3C staff 

### Schedule
SK: I have some vacation time upcoming
... What about use case calls?
TM: I will update the wiki

### AOB
SK: Adjourned



