# AI Minutes from 22.10.2025

## Quick recap
The team discussed changes to their meeting documentation process, deciding to move minutes from the W3C website to GitHub and establishing a new directory structure for better accessibility. They reviewed the status of various document publications, including the use case and requirements document, and confirmed the timeline for upcoming meetings and TPAC interactions. The group also addressed scheduling for breakouts and Plug Fest calls, while discussing potential new task forces and exploring synergies between different web technologies.

## Next steps
mmccool: Add under use case TF Planning about call for resolution for publication of use case document
Sebastian: Create PR for minutes following agreed structure - already completed during meeting
Michael : Double check that he is receiving emails sent to TeamWat email alias and they're not being filtered out
Dave: Search for and find Ben's emails with links to profile document resolutions and prepare profile document for publication by Tuesday next week
Ben: Re-forward email to Dave with profile document resolution links
Dave: Put all documents through publication process for next Tuesday, copying files from GitHub to W3C site and asking webmaster to proceed
mmccool: Clean up use case document HTML, fix links, track down dangling unclosed tags, and prepare final draft for publication in 1-2 weeks
Ege: Create issue to capture formatting problems and suggestions for AI-generated minutes
Michael : Reach out to Accessible Platform Architectures Working Group to see if they're interested in a meeting at TPAC
Chairs: Organize and reach out to various groups for informal joint meetings/touchpoints at TPAC during next week
Michael : Follow up on Smart City IG joint meeting scheduling at TPAC with Kaz
Sebastian: Continue organizing JSON-LD joint meeting discussion at TPAC

## Summary
### Use Case Document Update Meeting
The meeting began with Michael McCool discussing updates to a use case document, noting that a call for resolution would take place on October 22nd for its publication. McCool agreed to serve as the scribe for the meeting and confirmed the necessary tools were ready. The group reviewed the agenda, confirmed the absence of invited guests, and prepared to review minutes from the previous meeting on October 15th.

### Moving Minutes to GitHub Repository
The group discussed challenges with editing meeting minutes on the W3C website and agreed to move them to GitHub for better accessibility. They decided to create a "minutes" directory under the WoT repo, with subdirectories for each task force, and convert existing HTML minutes to Markdown format. The chairs were tasked with establishing file naming conventions and locations in GitHub, while the group will start using this new system immediately for the current meeting's minutes.

### GitHub Meeting Minutes Management
The team discussed the process for managing meeting minutes in GitHub. They agreed to merge the current pull request and create an issue to address formatting and process improvements. Michael suggested reviewing draft minutes at the start of meetings before making pull requests to maintain some confidentiality. The team decided to keep minutes in GitHub, though they noted it would be simpler to use Google Docs. They also agreed not to post announcements about the minutes on LinkedIn.

### Meeting Minutes and Time Zone Update
The team discussed merging minutes from previous meetings and agreed to create an issue for it. They also addressed the upcoming time zone change to European Central Time, which will affect meetings next week. Michael and Sebastian clarified that while the time change will occur in Europe this weekend, the calendar will remain as is, potentially causing confusion for those in different time zones. The team briefly touched on the status of planned publications, noting the need to reorganize tasks following Kaz's departure.

### Document Publication Status Update
The team discussed the status of document publications, with Dave confirming that most documents would be ready for the publication process by next Tuesday, pending Vivian's review. Ben highlighted that the profile document was ready for publication and emphasized the urgency due to his fellowship deadline next Wednesday, which Dave confirmed would be met if published on Tuesday. Ben requested a fresh email link from Dave to locate the document, and Michael agreed to check the TeamWat email alias to ensure proper communication. The team agreed to defer the resolution to publish the use case and requirements document until the actual use case TF planning meeting.

### UCR Document Resolution Review
The team reviewed the UCR document and agreed to pass a resolution capturing the current state of the editor's draft, with final publication expected in 1-2 weeks after text corrections are made. mmccool noted that while the content is ready, there are some HTML issues and procedural items to address, and the team discussed that further decisions about the document's future will be part of the new charter discussion. The group also confirmed they have two more meetings before TPAC, with no cancellations planned.

### TPAC Breakout Schedule Planning
The group discussed the schedule for breakouts and meetings with other teams at TPAC, focusing on finalizing plans for interactions with the JSON-LD group. They agreed to organize a breakout session for RDF and JSON-LD, inviting Manu to discuss tooling and updates. Michael noted that a Plug Fest call would follow, and David requested permission to share a link with Dennis Young, which was granted. The group also touched on the Smart City IG and Accessible Platform Architectures Working Group, with Michael acknowledging the need to further organize these interactions.

### Accessibility and Agentic Technologies
The group discussed accessibility concerns and agreed to reach out to relevant stakeholders for informal conversations during the upcoming TPAC meeting. They explored potential synergies between WebMCP, MCP servers, and agentic web technologies, with Michael suggesting the formation of a new agentic task force. The conversation ended with plans to start a Plugfest call after a short break and to continue with a TD meeting at the usual time.
