# IRC Minutes from 22.10.2025

Attendees

Present
    Ben_Francis, Daniel_Peintner, Dave_Raggett, David_Ezell, Ege_Korkan, Josh_Thomas, Kunihiko_Toumura, Michael_Koster, Sebastian_Kaebisch, Zoltan_Kis
Regrets
    -
Chair
    Michael Koster
Scribe
    McCool

Contents

    Guests
    Minutes
    Quick Items
    Notices
    Use Case and Requirements Note
    TPAC Planning
    Summary of resolutions

Meeting minutes
## Guests

<jthomas> Reminder there is a new zoom link

mk: Crris will join us as some point, but not today

mk: McCool is now an Invited Expert

## Minutes

mk: first time looking at minutes after Kaz has left

mm: no easy way to edit these...

dr: easiest way is to copy them somewhere, say github, and edit them there.

mk: that makes sense

mk: these are also based on an AI transcript

dr: I did start the companion, after the meeting will open access
… but if I'm not present, you won't get the summary

mk: could one of the chairs be a host?

dr: need to be a licensed user

ek: no, you need to be a w3c staff
… need to find a way to do the basics first

dr: start with basics, e.g. usual minutes
… requires chairs to set filename conventions etc.

mm: what I was going to say, and should start with today's minutes

ek: HTML is annoying to edit, should convert to markdown
… there other tools, but some cost money

<Ege> +1 to pandoc :)

mm: suggest put in wot under minutes/TF name/date

sk: I made a PR

w3c/wot#1242

mk: should we merge?

mk: note - this path also makes things public

mm: suggest maybe the draft is created, then we review in meeting before making the PR - just need to remove embarrassing things from the minutes, etc (esp a problem if we use an AI transcript)

mk: that makes sense...

sk: at any rate, we can merge this one
… regarding privacy, we can still delete stuff in IRC

mk: don't have a person that can do things offline every week

<Ege> Where are the AI minutes and where are the scribe-taken minutes? This PR is not clear on this based on the content (ignoring the PR title)

bf: happy with keeping minutes in github, but google docs would be simpler

sk: I would support, but some regions don't have access

<Ege> https://framapad.org/abc/en/ is an alternative

ek: this PR, it needs some fixes... we should at least distinguish AI and scribe-taken minutes. We can merge this as a test, but it needs some work

<Ege> we are using framapad in webagents CG and it seems to work well

mm: suggest we merge this PR and create an issue to capture additional fixes e.g. to formatting etc.

<Ege> +1 to mccool. I will put my proposal in the issue

mm: agree we should distinguish AI and human scribe input, e.g. with AI.txt and scribe.txt

mk: ok, will merge PR
… (merged)

<Ege> w3c/wot#1243

ege: I will create the issue

mk: have minutes from Oct 8 and 15, will clean both up and put in repo for next week

## Quick Items

mk: New calendar entries to be based on Central European time

sk: new calendar base, which means that next week there will be a shift by one hour in NA (earlier), then it will go back.
… in EU it will not change

mm: summary - use your calendar system, and watch out for next week

mk: next issue is status of planned publications

dr: most documents can go into the publication process... the only one I had questions about was profiles

mk: it has been done for a while...

dr: if someone can email with a link? I can put them all through

bf: have sent at least three emails linking to the resolution...
… just want to highlight that publication is one of the deliverables for my grant - deadline is next wed

dr: next tuesday should work, then?

bf: yes
… also, who is behind the team-wot?

mk: I will double-check that everyone is on them

mm: especially dave...

## Notices

sk: OPC UA meeting last week

mk: no other notices
Use Case and Requirements Note

proposal: Take a snapshot of the current state of the Editor's draft of the Use Case and Requirements document and prepare it for publication. Final resolution to publish will be in one to two weeks.

<sebastian> +1

**RESOLUTION: Take a snapshot of the current state of the Editor's draft of the Use Case and Requirements document and prepare it for publication. Final resolution to publish will be in one to two weeks.**

## TPAC Planning

mk: need to finalize schedule e.g. for breakouts and joint meetings
… not sure where we are with meetings with JSON-LD group, etc.

de: we have a plugfest call after this
… you may remember denis - will be coming to Kobe - want your permission to send him a link to attend the plugfest call - same zoom call?

mk: yes, you have permission, and yes, same zoom call
… anyone in your org, and plugfest calls are IG as well

sk: regarding joint meetings, talking to JSON-LD group
… but they are not official and don't have meetings at TPAC, but Manu will be there and can join our sessions and give us an update
… alternatively, we don't have a joint meeting but do something online afterwards
… personally I think it's better if we meet at TPAC
… this may also affect our charter, e.g. liaison
… and collaboration

mk: should we just schedule a breakout for RDF and JSON-LD generally?

sk: We have already created breakout sessions on Wed, for demos, so there will be conflicts

mk: we still have a couple of weeks to sort this out

mk: Smart City IG - with Kaz gone, a little stalled, so I need to look into options
… then there's the Accessibile Platform Architectures WG

mk: no-one's been working on that; some intersection with that group

<Zakim> dezell, you wanted to discuss a quick plugfest question

de: we do have concerns about this in retail
… also have some equipment manufactures in Japan

mm: my suggestion is that you reach out to them to see if THEY are interested in meeting, and then schedule a short slot (maybe 20m) to see how it impacts the new WoT charter, etc.

mk: any other concerns with TPAC scheduling?

zk: we might want to explore MCP, etc. so talking to WebML group might be useful
… could also be done in CG
… current shift to agentic systems, but also descriptive systems, semantics, etc. are becoming more relevant

<McCool> +1

mk: maybe we want to bring this in as a charter topic - could even imagine us having an agentic TF
… TPAC would be a good time to talk about that

mk: out of time today. AOB?

mk: adjourn

