 # WoT Main Minutes 14.1.2026

## Attendees

    Kaz Ashimura

    Dave Raggett

    Michael Koster

    Ege Korkan

    Kunihiko Toumura

    Sebastian Kaebisch

    Tetsushi Matsuda

    Tomoaki Mizushima

    Mahda Noura

    David Ezell

    Josh Thomas


Regrets

     


Chair: Michael Koster

Scribe: Sebastian Kaebisch

Agenda: https://www.w3.org/WoT/IG/wiki/Main_WoT_WebConf#14_January_2026

Chair: Michael Koster
Scribe:  Sebastian
    

## Agenda:

    Welcome

    Guests, New Members, and Invited Experts

    Minutes review 

    Quick Items and Notices

     Status Use Case Note publication 

    OPC UA Binding publication

    WoT PlugFest & Workshop in China

    minutes guideline (Ege)

    Charter discussions for WoT 2.0 (cont.)

    Topics for next meeting:

    tbd




## Minutes:
    
### Guests, New Members, and Invited Experts
MK: no news

###  Minutes review
Minutes from last week: https://pad.w3.org/p/2026-01-07-wot
MK: does anyone have comments or additions?
... objections?
No objections
MK: Minutes will be publised
Kaz: what happen with the etherpad minutes?
Seb: this will be discussed later in quick items

###  Quick Items and Notices

#### Use Case Note publication
Tomoaki: no progress today in the UC call
Kaz: there is still the call of review phase, isn't it?
Seb: yes, last week I forwarded the email from McCool. Call for publication will take place next week.

-> https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-wot-wg/2026Jan/0000.html Sebastian's requst-for-review message

#### OPC UA Binding is published
Sebastian: OPC UA BInding document has been published.

-> https://opcfoundation.org/developer-tools/documents/view/368 OPC UA Binding document (only for OPCF Members)
-> https://reference.opcfoundation.org/ public version

#### Planning: W3C WoT PlugFest & Workshop in China hosted by Huawei

Sebastian: had discussion about the idea with Angel
... Huawei and other Chinese companies would be interested
... as a W3C event in China hosted by Huawei
... possible location would be Shenzhen and Shanghai
... candidate date would be June 2026
... will contact Angel and the W3C China Team again

Koster: tx!

Sebastian: As you know, there were active participants from Huawei before
... would be a good opportunity to get their interest again
... good chance for re-activation

Ege: question about the event

Sebastian: interested in possible binding between WoT and Chinese standards
... would make WoT more popular in China

Ege: what is the purpose?

Seb: activiate the W3C community in China

Kaz: interested in F2F discussion as well as an event of Plugfest and Workshop?

Sebastian: not decided yet but probably something like WoT Week in Munich 2 years ago

Kaz: We should be careful about the content any way

Sebastian: right
... translation of WoT standards into Chinese language is a big issue also

Kaz: ok
... We need to be careful about the network setting as well if there are possible remort partcipants

Dave: We should ask for help from W3C China office in respect to publicising the Web of Things and help with translations.

Sebastian: in any case, Angel is involved, and we can talk with her


#### Minutes Guideline 

Ege: I have PR as proposal:
    
 -> https://github.com/w3c/wot/pull/1258 WoT PR 1258 - New minutes policy
    
MK: <shows the PR and its guideline points>

Ege: I will swap the date order of the minutes path DDMMYYY to YYMMDD

Ege: Etherpad version should be updated

Kaz: agree to update the Etherpad software
... on the other hand, regarding the year, 4 digits should be used.

Ege: already fixed that

Seb: currently, we have an agenda overview in the beginning, this is missing in the template

Ege: the markdown on github renders the document and provide a structure on the right hand side

Kaz: the script of the IRC minutes generated an agenda overview at the beginning. But we dont need to do this for the Markdown. 

MK: the template should be updated with a link to the wiki agenda

Ege: I will update this

### Schedule and Cancellations
no news

### New Charter

SK: see latest draft here:
    
    -> https://github.com/w3c/wot/pull/1256 wot PR 1256 - WoT 2.0 Charter Draft
    
SK: just moved the Registry from Normative deliverable to Non-Normative deliverable

David: Created a new issue:

-> https://github.com/w3c/wot/issues/1260 wot Issue 1260 - Need for marketing campaign to boost active participation as we recharter #1260

Dave: how we can execute an effective marketing campaign
... I think we need also help from the W3C

Kaz: this is an interesting view point. What is really expected by a "marketing campaign", new Member companies, liaison SDOs and/or industry communities?

Dave: we need to convince people to actively participate in our group. It is a mixture of industrial support and community support

Kaz: in that case, there is a possibility we can think about possible nice balance of all those three categories :)

Ege: we don't have problem with adoption. We need more to concentrate on how more people can contribute to the standardization work.

### TF Reports

#### TD/Binding
Ege: make progress on common definitions
... there are feedbacks from Ben
... working on syncronizing between WoT Architecture and TD. Some parts are moving to the TD spec. There will be some resolutions in the next meeting
... attendance at the TD call is declining  

MK: we should think about to reschedule the TD time slots. It seems there are some conflicts with some members.  

Adjourn












