– DRAFT –
WoT Main Call 29 October 2025 IRC log.
Attendees

Present
    Ben_Francis, Daniel_Peintner, Dave_Raggett, David_Ezell, draggett, Ege_Korkan, Kunihiko_Toumura, Michael_Koster, Tomoaki_Mizushima
Regrets
    -
Chair
    Michael_Koster
Scribe
    Ege

Contents

    Intro
    Minutes
    Namespaces
        Profile Publication
        Use Case Publication
    TPAC

Meeting minutes
Intro

mk: kaz has applied to be an IE

tm: recently, there are many IEs in IG and WG. We must check IEs and we should have more members
… there are not enough member organizations that are active
… so we should not add more IEs

<draggett> n.b. Invited Expert process: https://www.w3.org/invited-experts/

ek: I share same concerns. Of course Kaz is fine but we need more members

ek: fraunhofer has appointed a person to the WG. They are interested in TD specwork

mk: with microsoft's announcement should bring more people

dp: I would appreciate that we have IEs if there is not enough people. For example in scripting api, Zoltan would be nice to have as an IE

mk: it is good to have more people working. We can send Zoltan an invite

dr: we have the rechartering and we can get more people in
… we can get fresh eyes and fresh interest

mk: so in addition to features, you mean we can get people right?

dr: yes we should use all opportunities to do outreach

ek: we are not removing people from IE list. that can be discussed as an adjustment to the policy. that should nudge people to contribute more and we would lose nothing
Minutes

ek: There is an issue about the minutes process

w3c/wot#1243

mk: ok I see. Please have a look at it and express opinions

bf: it would be nice to review the open PRs and merge those PRs

<benfrancis> ack
Namespaces

dr: there were discussions on namespaces over emails

<draggett> The W3C namespace URI policy: https://www.w3.org/guide/editor/namespaces.html

w3c/transitions#728

w3c/ns

https://www.w3.org/guide/editor/namespaces.html#nsdoc

<benfrancis> Note for the minutes: The minutes from WoT Main calls on 15th & 22nd (PRs #1244, #1245, #1246, #1247) were approved. Ted's typo fixes will be be accepted and the PRs will be merged offline.

ek: (explains the problem)

de: this namespace comes from XML times and it is surprising to see it not resolved.

dr: in essence, we need to agree on something to solve this for td 2.0

ek: PLH needs to approve w3c/ns#9

dr: can you send me an email

dp: What should we do regarding wot-resources vs ns repository?

mk: do we have an impact on the tooling

ek: no

mk: maybe we should find the working mode that causes less problems
… and find ways to do this without staff contact

dr: we need the short term solution for the publication of the FPWD. by tomorrow
… also we need the long term solution that is agreed upon with PLH and others like the webmaster

<benfrancis> https://www.w3.org/TR/2025/WD-wot-profile-20251028/

<benfrancis> https://www.w3.org/TR/wot-profile/
Profile Publication

bf: There is update on wot profile
… but the latest does not point to the latest

https://www.w3.org/standards/history/wot-profile/
Use Case Publication

tm: we did some tidying up
… of the static htmls
TPAC

ek: will the people in europe be able to join the calls

dp: I can join the scripting api

bf: I did not register to TPAC
… as my funding is running out

mk: AOB?

bf: we have profiles call now in 5 mins

mk: adjourned

