# WoT Main Minutes 10.12.2025

## Attendees

    Kaz Ashimura

    Dave Raggett

    Sebastian Kaebisch

    Michael Koster

    Kunihiko Toumura

    Tomoaki Mizushima

    Mahda Noura

    Ben Francis

    David Ezell

    Tetsushi Matsuda

    Ege Korkan

    Daniel Peintner


Chair: Sebastian KÃ¤bisch
Scribe:  Dave
    
## Agenda:

    1 Welcome

    2 Guests, New Members, and Invited Experts

    3 Minutes review 

    4 Quick Items and Notices

    5 Holidays and Upcoming Events

    6 TF reports


## Minutes

1. Welcome

Sebastian: this may be the last call for this year.

2. Guests, New Members, and Invited Experts

Kaz is now back as an invited expert. The IG and WG now show Dave as the team contact.

Dave needs to check on why Kaz's invite for the IG is still pending.  The forms are a little confusing.

3. Minutes review 

--> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-11-26-wot

Any objections to the minutes of our last call - no.

Resolved as approved for publication.  Sebastian will copy them to GitHub in the minutes folder, which now includes all the minutes from the plugfest.

Any comments or questions?

4. Quick Items and Notices

4..1 Wot Profile:

Sebastian: some discussion in last chairs call on respect to publication of WoT Profile doc.

--> https://github.com/w3c/wot-profile/issues/486
--> https://w3c.github.io/wot-profile/requirements/publication/1-dnote/Overview.html Rendered HTML

The document isn't clear that it refers to WoT TD 2.0 and how it relates to the previous version Wot Profile 1.0.

Ben had to step out of the call. Can we come back to this later?

Sebastian walks us through the document 

It has 2 requirements: a)  profile mechanism, and b) profile registry.  The former lacks a full description.

(we return to this topic now that Ben has returned to the call)

Sebastian recaps: the document focuses on the registry, but is weak in respect to the use cases and requirements.  We could perhaps rename the document to match its current focus, or we could add more content to match the current title.

Ben: I responded about the document title. It differs from the Wot Binding Registry.  The current document is not just a registry and is intended to be normative in respect to defining a profiling mechanism. 

In the task force call, we also discussed ideas for refactoring the content.

The profile mechanism is very simple: a url.

I agree that we could improve the description on the relation to the WoT 2.0 documents. If we need to make substantive changes the task force needs to be restarted.

Sebastian: publication is a group decision. The chairs provide a quality checking role.  What do people here think?  Should we publish this as a snapshot?

Kaz: thanks Ben for his hard work. I tend to agree with Sebastian's assessment.  We probably don't want to maintain the 1.0 document, and instead focus on 2.0.  We need more on the use cases.

Ben: I agree with clarifying the relationship to the 1.0 spec, however, that is not a REC. I would like to see a use cases documument for each of our specs. That involves all of the 2.0 deliverables.

Ege: I am in a noisy environment, sorry.  I think we need a broader review by other people.

Ben: every pull requested needed positive reviews by at least 2 people

Ege: okay

Ben: there are some open issues that are still under discussion, e.g. whether we should allow application specific profiles. Remember this is only a snapshot, not a finished deliverable.

Kaz: may be we can live with simpler high-level descriptions.

Ben: we certainly need high-level descriptions, but that isn't sufficient to justify requirements

Sebastian asks Michael Koster for his thoughts

Michael:  more can be written about the mechanism of profiling, but that could come in a later snapshot. It is reasonable to publish a current snapshot perhaps with a little more on the relationship of 2.0 to 1.0.

Green field vs brown field applications would be a good topic to cover.

Sebastian: having profiles in the title creates certain expectations for what will be covered.

The rough concensus is that we should add something on the relationship of 2.0 to 1.0 for now.

Given that the task force has wound down we should handle this in the main group.

Dave  and Kaz concur

Kaz: the requirements and solution merit some additional content as justification

Michael: we can continue with the current editors.

Kaz: I think we should publish the document after some additions to the introduction and the section on profiling mechanism.

Ben: I can find time to do that.  I hope to restart this work next year provided we can show enough interest. Otherwise I will try to continue work in the Web Thing Protocol CG.

Michael invites Ben to suggest improvements to the TD spec too.

4.2 WoT 2.0 Use Cases publications:

Some issues are still pending.

5. Holidays and Upcoming Events

Japanese Member meeting next Wednesday (Dec 17), Sebastian suggests we should probably cancel the WoT Main call next week. 

Kaz would be available and suggests asking everyone here who can be available.

Sebastian: all those on the call today who won't be available next week, please raise your hand?

Only 2 people raise a hand. Sebastian suggests we have the call anyway.

Mizushima-san may be able to dial in from his phone.

Sebastian: okay we will have the call, and will discuss rechartering.

No meetings December 22 through January 6 due to seaonal break.

The TD calls will happen as planned for December.

6. Topics for next WoT Main call

We need to discuss the charter and scoping, e.g. do we need to work on WoT Profile in the next charter? Please come prepared to discuss your recommendations.  Sebastian invites Ben to raise publication when he is ready with an updated snapshot.

Any other business for today?   no.

We adjourn the meeting.
