# WoT Main Minutes 7.1.2026

## Attendees

    Sebastian Kaebisch

    Kaz Ashimura

    Ege Korkan

    Kunihiko Toumura

    Michael Koster

    Tetsushi Matsuda

    Tomoaki Mizushima

    David Ezell


Regrets

    Dave Raggett


Agenda: https://www.w3.org/WoT/IG/wiki/Main_WoT_WebConf#7_January_2026

Chair: Sebastian Kaebisch

Scribe:  Ege
    
## Agenda:

    1. Welcome

    2. Guests, New Members, and Invited Experts

    3. Minutes review 

    4. Quick Items and Notices (status Use Case Note publication & OPC UA)

    5. Optional: Charter discussions for WoT 2.0 (cont.)

    6. Topics for next meeting: provide a place for a guideline for the Etherpad minutes (Ege)

## Minutes

### Minutes Review
-> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-12-17-wot 17 December 2025
sk: We could not review it in the chairs call yet. So let's review today.
sk: by scanning now, I could not see any issues. Any complaints?

### Quick Items

#### UC Publication
sk: any news on the UC publication?
tm: we are working on it but I don't know how to publish it.
sk: so everything is ready for publication?
tm: yes. today we have created the final version.
ka: Usually, the Team Contact, this time Dave, would do the publication work but we need to clearly record the document is ready for publication as a group resolution before asking Dave.
sk: Tomoaki, can you show the recent changes to the group?
tm: This URL is the final version of the document https://w3c.github.io/wot-usecases/publication/3-ign/index.html
sk: what are the changes?
tm: we have added technical and functional requirements sections
sk: where is the changelog?
tm: it is at https://w3c.github.io/wot-usecases/#changes
sk: ok so it is not in the publication version.
ka: McCool sent a request for review in Decmber but it was sent to the Member list though should have been sent to the public list: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-wot-ig/2025Dec/0004.html
... So we need to explicitly start a call for review.
-> https://w3c.github.io/wot-usecases/publication/3-ign/Overview.html static version for review
ek: https://w3c.github.io/wot-usecases/publication/3-ign/Overview.html has the changes. The previous link was wrong, so is the index.html 
ka: reviews should be sent to the public list.
sk: ok I will reply to this email and send it also to the public list. So we need 1 week?
ka: 2 weeks is needed.
sk: ok so we will make another call for review. But it is nice to see that everything is nicely done on the document.

#### OPC UA Binding

sk: the final steps are through, the next days there will be the opc ua binding for WoT. Once there is a public link available, I will let you know.
sk: it went through the review process and it is in the process of publication.

### Minutes Process

ek: did we agree on the minutes process?
sk: I thought we did during TPAC 2025?
ek: We documented at https://github.com/w3c/wot/issues/1243 and it is a bit different than what we do for the main call (e.g., when/how to make the minutes public)
sk: We have them on GitHub now.
ek: for example, we (=TD TF) use the same Etherpad link for minutes taking every week.
sk: but then, you cannot see the history of changes?
sk: I thought we had it written down somewhere. I will put it as an action item for next week.
ek: I can prepare a document

### Charter Discussion

sk: (shows the list of possible deliverables within the WoT main wiki)
[[

    Thing Description 2.0 REC

    WoT X Bindings Note

    publish HTTP / MQTT / Modbus / BACnet / CoAP etc

    new Binding: LoRaWAN, EtherNet/IP

    WoT Binding Registry

    WoT Scripting API Note

    WoT and AI Agents Note

    describes scenarios

    interplay with AI agents and MCP Servers

    Under discussion:

    WoT: Use Cases and Requirements Note

    only maintenance?

    as part of TD 2.0?

    WoT Profile 2.0 REC

    is there support by active WG members?

]]

sk: basically going forward with TD 2.0, Binding Registry, Scripting API, Bindings themselves, WoT and AI Agents Note. Under discussion is the use cases and profile 2.0.
ka: this is a good starting point but we should have a dedicated github issue for each discussion point so that we can link to them.
sk: I think we have issues for most of the important ones, e.g., Profile.
sk: there is a PR that is also available but we can postpone it for next week when there is more people.
ka: I think we should link to those discussions. I am fine with postponing the discussion the next week.


### News
#### Smart Cities IG
ka: the next Smart Cities IG call will be held on Jan. 26, and we'll invite the ETSI guys for collaboration.
... FYI, I am the co-chair of the smart cities ig now.

sk: anything else? welcome back in 2026!
(none)

sk: adjourned.



