# WoT Main Minutes 26.11.2025

## Attendees

    Kaz Ashimura

    Michael Koster

    Daniel Peintner

    David Ezell

    Ege Korkan

    Michael McCool

    Ben Francis

    Kunihiko Toumura

    Mahda Noura

    Tomoaki Mizushima

    Tetsushi Matsuda


Chair: Michael Koster

Scribe: Daniel 
    
## Agenda:

    Welcome

    Guests, New Members, and Invited Experts

    Minutes review from TPAC

    Quick Items and Notices

    Holidays and Upcoming Events

    
    
    
## Minutes

TOPIC: Previous Minutes:
    
SUBTOPIC: Last Call Minutes
November 5th, https://github.com/w3c/wot/pull/1250
MK: AI Minutes?
EK: In future we will not have anymore AI minutes
... some wrong spellings
MMC: Suggest to put a disclaimer at the top that it is AI generated
MK: Some things that should be corrected but I think we should keep them as is
Kaz: Yes, let's put a disclaimer
MK: Okay will do that

SUBTOPIC: PF Call Minutes
Sunday, Nov 9-> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-11-09-wot-pf
MK: Minutes from Nov 9 are approved

Monday, Nov 10 -> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-11-10-wot-pf
MK: Minutes can be easily fixed/changed
DP: Yes, that's why we decided to export them 
MK: Correct, after approval we should export them
<MK doing some obvious corrections>
DE: While making changes we can train the AI
EK: We no longer use bots... we just copy paste it
DE: We can try to avoid a lot of work
EK: Sure, but that implies we would use AI to generate the minutes
MK: Correct, with Etherpad we manually type the minutes
BF: There are plugins to export Markdown. W3C admins needs to install them. W3C uses an out-dated version.
MK: Minutes from Nov 10 are approved

Tuesday, Nov 11 -> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-11-11-wot-pf
<MK going over the minutes>
MK: Minutes from Nov 11 are approved

SUBTOPIC: Breakout Minutes
Wednesday, Nov 12 -> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-11-12-wot-pf
<MK going over the minutes>
DP: Note, there are spell checking plugins for Etherpad,. also e.g., ep_spellcheck
MK: Makes sense or spell checking on Markdown export
EK: Reviewing minutes should be done *before* the call
MK: Yes, normally we wouldn't be doing it but today is special
MK: Minutes from Nov 12 are approved

SUBTOPIC: WG Minutes

Thursday, Nov 13 -> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-11-13-wot
<MK going over the minutes>
MK: Minutes from Nov 13 are approved

Friday, Nov 14 -> https://pad.w3.org/p/2025-11-14-wot
<MK going over the minutes>
MK: Minutes from Nov 14 are approved

TOPIC: WoT Profile Use Case and Requirements 
BF: Meeting before TPAC Sebastian asked for more time before we approve
see https://w3c.github.io/wot-profile/requirements/publication/1-dnote/ and https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-wot-wg/2025Oct/0029.html
Kaz: Sebastian is not here today. maybe we need to wait one more week
MK: I think Sebastian misses call next week also
... will follow-up with Sebastian
BF: Will miss that meeting also but we can do it via e-mail

MK: AOB?

BF: No profile call today

[adjourned]

