# AI WoT Main call Minutes from 5.11.2025
## Quick recap
The meeting began with administrative matters including attendance updates and the introduction of new members from Fraunhofer, followed by a review of meeting minutes and discussion of documentation processes. The group addressed several technical topics including document publication issues, use case documentation, and charter review considerations, while also discussing the transition from IRC to a new collaborative tool called ESOPET. The conversation ended with updates about the upcoming TPAC meeting, including agenda details and room assignments, along with discussions about the Blackfest and plugfest participants.

## Next steps
Ben: Take minutes for this meeting
Sebastian: Verify and resolve the conflict with AI minutes pull request from last week
Sebastian: Review the WoT Profile use case and requirements document before next resolution decision
Sebastian: Update the wiki page if there are last-minute changes to the TPAC room location
Sebastian: Talk to Marta about the 90-minute session timing and adjust if needed
Cass : Ask Matsuda-san or Dr. Pam from Echonet to give a short presentation on smart city updates during TPAC day two
Tomoaki : Prepare 15-30 minute presentation to explain current status of use case document at TPAC
Michael Costa and Cass : Provide report from smart city breakout meeting on Wednesday at TPAC

## Summary
New Members and Meeting Updates
The meeting began with Sebastian noting low attendance due to some members traveling to Japan and announcing the start of the meeting. Ashimura confirmed inviting a participant, and Dave mentioned delays in document distribution but assured that more would be available soon. Sebastian added a topic regarding the hyphen description/pointing issue, which Dave confirmed was on the agenda. Ben volunteered to take meeting minutes. Sebastian introduced new members, including Ron Hofer and Mark Riedlinger from Fraunhofer, highlighting their previous contributions to the Web of Things and asset administration shell. He mentioned that these new members would be active in the subscription group and requested a presentation from Nagasaki University regarding their application as invited experts for the Web of Things group.

## Application Review and Minutes Approval
Sebastian discussed Ashimura's application, highlighting his expertise in Web of Things standards and smart cities, and encouraged him to build connections with the Japanese community. They agreed to revisit CRISP's application after TPEC if there's no response. Sebastian then reviewed and approved several sets of meeting minutes, including those from October 15 and 22, after making necessary corrections and improvements.

## Meeting Minutes Process Updates
Sebastian and ashimura discussed the process of taking meeting minutes, noting the transition from IRC to a new collaborative tool called ESOPET for testing during TPAC. They also mentioned the possibility of using AI-generated minutes, which Sebastian explained are usually more detailed but lack participant information. The team reviewed previous minutes, including some from last week, and identified an issue with an AI-generated minute that lacked clarity. They decided to keep this item open for further verification. Finally, Sebastian shared some good news about the publication of several long-awaited documents, inviting Davey to comment on this progress.

## Publication Delays and Protocol Updates
The group discussed publication delays caused by broken links and namespace issues, which have now been resolved with a short-term solution. They reviewed new documents including a binding template, group note, and registry for protocol bindings, with Sebastian noting that protocols will be listed in a table with a URI starting with "DRI." The team agreed to discuss Ben's email about resolution at a later time, as they didn't have enough background information to address it during this meeting.

## Profiles 2.0 Use Case Discussion
The group discussed publishing a draft note containing use cases and requirements for Profiles 2.0, which Ben had been working on as part of his fellowship deliverables. Sebastian expressed surprise at the proposal and requested more time to review the document, as he was unclear about its relationship to the existing core use case document. Michael explained that the intention was to streamline the use case process by conducting work in relevant task forces, but noted that they had never established a clear policy on how to publish the resulting documents. The group agreed to revisit the decision after the upcoming TPACK meeting.

## Charter Review and Document Versioning
The group discussed two main topics: a charter review and a system administration request. Regarding the charter, they determined that publishing non-normative documents like use cases and requirements was allowed, though they agreed to review the charter further before making a final decision. On the system administration request, ashimura proposed keeping the link to the 1.1 version of the REC document rather than updating it to the 2.0 version, citing stability concerns with the 2.0 version.

## URL Redirect and Event Updates
The group decided to keep the main URL for the theme description specification redirecting to version 1.1 until version 2.0 becomes more mature. Sebastian updated the wiki page with the latest information on the upcoming TPAC meeting, including the agenda, participants, and room assignment. The group discussed the Blackfest, which will start on Sunday at 1 PM in room 307, and reviewed the GitHub page for the plugfest participants. Tomoaki requested 15 minutes to explain the current status of the use case topic, which was granted.
